Author: John Royce C. Punay
Date: Feb 28, 2020 9:05 PM
Internet
    - Global network of computers
    - Each computers from a global network must have unique IP (Internet Protocol) address.
    - There is a way to see if a computer device has an internet run 
        ping <host.name or web address>
    - How to communicate computers through the Internet? Well with the use of TCP/IP layer or protocal stack you can
        send a message to another computer. Usually this protocal stack is built in into the computer's OS. Typically its FIFO
        1.) Application Layer - Protocols specific to applications such as WWW, e-mail, FTP, etc.
        2.) TCP layer - TCP directs packets to a specific application on a computer using a port number.
        3.) IP Layer - IP directs packets to a specific computer using an IP address.
        4. Hardware layer - Converts binary packet data to network signals and back. Like network interfaces (E.g. ethernet network card, modem for phone lines, etc.)
     - There is another way to determine the route how the packet reach the destination. Through the use of traceroute. 
        In summary If you use traceroute, you'll notice that your packets must travel through many things to get to their destination.
        traceroute <web address / ip address>
     -  The internet backbone is made up of large networks which interconnect with each other.Known as NSP network service provider.
        Some of the large NSPs are UUNet, CerfNet, IBM, BBN Planet, SprintNet, PSINet, as well as others.
        These networks peer with each other to exchange packet traffic. 
        Each NSP is required to connect to three Network Access Points or NAPs. 
        At the NAPs, packet traffic may jump from one NSP's backbone to another NSP's backbone. 
        NSPs also interconnect at Metropolitan Area Exchanges or MAEs. MAEs serve the same purpose as the NAPs but are privately owned.
     - When a packet arrives at a router, the router examines the IP address put there by the IP protocol layer on the originating computer.
       The router checks it's routing table. If the network containing the IP address is found, the packet is sent to that network. 
       If the network containing the IP address is not found, then the router sends the packet on a default route, usually up the backbone hierarchy to the next router.
       will know where to send the packet.  If it does not, again the packet is routed upwards until it reaches a NSP backbone. 
       The routers connected to the NSP backbones hold the largest routing tables and here the packet will be routed to the correct backbone, 
       where it will begin its journey 'downward' through smaller and smaller networks until it finds it's destination. 
    - Domain names and address resolution
        If you don't know the IP address of the computer there is called DNS referred to Domain name service that translate IP address into 
         domain name such www.xyz.com. DNS is a distrubted database that tracks Computer IP adress and its name. There is a software
          that access the database to obtain the domain name. If the domain name is not found it will be redirect to other DNS.
          Two types of DNS
          1.) Primary DNS or master server - resolves the web address request by the web browser. This is first point contact for a web browser.
          2.) Secondary DNS or slave server -  it backups what in primary server to provide inherent redundancy and high availability.
             Resources: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2182, https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1996.txt
    - Internet Protocols Revisited (Needed to function Internet?)
        Many protocols need to operate so that Internet will work properly such as TCP/IP protocols, Routing protocols, 
        medium access control protocol, application level protocols.
    - Application protocols HTTP
        A service called WWW or world wide web is the most commonly used. Then an application protocol to make the web work is HTTP or
        Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It's used by web browser and web servers to communicate with each other over the Internet. 
        Being said it sits on the top of TCP/IP in the protocol stack. Another thing to considered is that HTTP is a connection less software 
        that uses by clients (web browser) send requests to web servers for web elements such as web pages and images. Once request is 
        resolved the connection will be disconnected. For newly request needs to create connection first.
        Useful tools to utilise HTTP request over the terminal
        1.) telnet is default on Windows machine (Utilise TCP protocol)
        2.) nc or netcat for unix based OS (Utilsie UDP protocol)
    - Application protocols SMTP
        Another interner service  that uses electronic email is SMTP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol. Its connection oriented and 
        more complicated than HTTP.
        The mail server will always respond 250 OK whenever client sent the message.
        Resource: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc821, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Postel
    - Transmission Control Protocol
        One of the task of TCP is to route the application protocol to the correct application on the destination of computer.
        To accomplish this task a port number must be used.
        1.) When TCP layer receives the data from application layer, it will be segmented into manageable chunks with TCP header, port number of application and TCP information.
            So that TCP knows where to sent to.
        2.) When TCP layer receives packets from IP layer below, the TCP layer strips tbe TCP header data from packet, data reconstruction if needed
            then sends back the data to application using port number taken from TCP header.
        TCP contents
            a.) 16-bit Port number source and destination
            b.) 32-bit Sequence number 
            c.) 32-bit acknowledgement number 
            d.) 16-bit TCP check sum 
            e.) 16-bit urgent pointer
            f.) options
            g.) data
    - Well know port numbers
        a.) FTP - 20/21
        b.) Telnet - 23
        c.) SMTP - 25
        d.) HTTP - 80
        e.) Quake III Arena - 27960

