Author: John Royce C. Punay
Date: Feb 29, 2020 4:11 PM

Web browser
    - Is a software application client that is used to locate, retrieve, display web content from
        web server.
    - It will not display the content withoug internet access.
    - It can interpret static HTML web pages applications, JS, AJAX from hosted web servers. 
    - Many browser plugins available in market to utilise and extend the capabalities of the application.
    - Web browser is a group of structure codes that performs together to display web pages.
    - Web browser archictecture
        a.) UI - is the space where User interacts with the browser. It includes the address bar, back and next buttons, home button, refresh and stop, bookmark option, etc. 
            Every other part, except the window where requested web page is displayed, comes under it.
        b.) Browser engine - Its a bridge for UI and rendering engine. This is done by manipulating Inputs then goes to rendering engine.
        c.) Rendering engine - responsible for rendering web pages on web browser screen. It interprets HTML, XML etc.
        d.) Networking - Another component of web browser that receives URL from HTTP or FTP. It handles the communication and security on the Internet.
        e.) JS interpreter - Another component that interpret and executes JS code embedded in the website. If script is external if fetchted first through
            network then parse until it will be execute.
        f.) UI backend - UI backend is used for drawing basic widgets like combo boxes and windows. This backend exposes a generic interface that is not platform specific. 
            It underneath uses operating system user interface methods.
        g.) Data persistence / storage - A typical browser supports storage mechanism such as localStorage, IndexedDB, WebSQL and FS.
                It is a small database created on the local drive of the computer where the browser is installed. 
                It manages user data such as cache, cookies, bookmarks and preferences.