Date created: April 25, 2020


Objectives: To have foundation and solid understanding about process management 
	under computer systems.





Processes
	- Program can have complete control of the system and it's resources.
	- Process allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory and executes it concurrently
	- In simple and straight forward definition a process is the unit of work in modern computing system.
	- Under processes we have user and os code execution. Example is system call.
	- Term process and job are both significance through operation system
	

Memory allocation (Layout of a process in memory)
	1) Stack
	2) Heap
	3) Data
	4) Text

	Heap section - memory that is dynamically allocated during program run time.
	Stack section - temporary storage when invoking functions (such as function parameters, return addresses and local variables)

	On a side note we do know that program itself its not a process, it's just passive entity file 
		containing list of instructions stored in disk called executable fil.

		Process states
			1) New - The process is being created.
			2) Running - Instructions are being executed.
			3) Waiting - Waiting to receive an I/O event completion or signal.
			4) Ready - The process is waiting to be assigned to a processor.
			5) Terminated - The process has finished execution

		PCB(Process Control Block) - Serves as repository of data needed how process allocated.
			1) Process states - Can be found above ^
			2) Program counter - indicates an address of instruction to execute
			3) CPU registers - set of addresses
			4) CPU-scheduling information - consists of information for process schedule
			5) Memory-management information - containing memory information that relates to process
			6) Accounting information - indicates the amount of CPU and real time used 

		Threads 
			- A process is program that performs a single thread execution.
			- Example a word-processor program is running, a single thread of instructions are being executed.
			- A single thread control allows the process to perform only one task at a time.
			- Modern computers with multicore processor could performs multiple threads in parallel called multithreaded. 
				Having this the PCB is expanded by inlcuding thread information.
		
		Process scheduling
			- selects available process to be excute.
		
		Different type of system call()
			1) fork = process replication
			2) spawb = create process
			3) exec = executes process