Author: John Royce C. Punay
Date: April 10, 2020 12:7 

Objectives: To recall and gain solid understanding about the Operating Systems



OS (Operating System) 
	- Acts as an intermediary (link together) and software between user of
	computer and the computer hardware.
	- OS can be found everywhere like car, home appliances, mobile phones, cloud computing environment, pc, enterprise computer, IOT
Purpose of OS
	- Provide environment in which user can execute programs in convenient and 
	   efficient manner.

What OS do?
	Computer systems 
		Components
			a.) Hardware - compromise of CPU, memory, storage, I/O devices
			b.) OS - The environment for executing application programs.
			c.) Application programs - compilers, web browsers, spreadsheet etc. This is the one that solved user's problem.
			d.) User - The one that used computer.
		Usage
			a.) Fundamental goal is to execute programs and make solving user problem easier.
	User View 
		a.) In order for user to make benefit of the resources, The OS is designed 
			for "ease of use" and "resource utilization".
		b) Abstract view of computer system from top to bottom:
			- User 
			- Application programs (web browsers, compilers, dev kits, etc)
			- OS 
			- Computer hardware (CPU, memory, I/O devices etc)
		c) The age of mobile phones, as lots of users today interacting with 
			mobile device instead of PC or laptop in which connected to the 
			cellular network or wireless technology using touch screen. 
				- Voice recognetion
				- Camera 
	System View
		a.) Under computer system there are lot of resouces and one primary responsibility 
			of OS is to do "resource allocator" to solve problem. Like 
			- CPU time 
			- memory space 
			- storage 
			- I/O devices
		b.) The manager of computer system is the OS by deciding how to allocate 
			correct resources on the request efficiently and faily.
		c.) Under a system view the OS is a control program, that manages 
			the execution of user programs by preventing errors and improper 
			use of the computer.
	Defining the OS 
		a.) In general no complete adequate definition of OS, it exists to solve problem 
			on the computing system.
		b.) The common definition and followed by others is that a program running at all tmes on the 
			computer called "kernel".
		c.) For the modern times, the mobile OS is not only using the kernel also the 
			"middleware" the set of frameworks that provides ease application developer.

Computer-System Organization
	a.) Device controllers are connected to common "system bus" and the 
	 interface is "device driver" so the OS understand what it does to solve problem.

	 Interrupts
	 	a.) Stop things immediately by sending a signal. Can be I/O operation.
		Mechanisim
			1.) Interrupt vector - an array of addressess that is assigned by 
				indexed number.
			2.) Interrupt request line - a line request that whenever interruption it will be displayed here.
			3.) Interrupt handler - when CPU detects controller signal on interrup request line it 
				reads the interrupt number as an index into interrupt vector. By doing 
				saves the current state, check the interrupt, perform state restore.